okay my name is Bill Davis I'm one of
the cofounders of the Christian
Institute I'm a Jesuit priest who has
worked with the Institute now since its
founding in 1980 and I have been
involved in many investigations I'm
currently working on the west coast as
the west coast director and coordinator
of our two grand officers out there
drippings all yeah that's home yeah
that's him that's the one I mean I is
that too much noise no that's how that
kind of thing is going somewhere all
right well I think that we are in a
rather extraordinary time now when a
number of movements are happening that
are not getting into the press one of
them of course is the lack of any kind
of appreciation of the real war on drugs
there there are all kinds of things
happening revelations being made around
the drug issue that are getting very
little pressed and the second one it
seems to me that I'm very concerned
about as a result of our lawsuit is a
whole trend toward secrecy and using
secrecy against the citizens against the
fundamental need for an enlightened you
can't really have democracy without
having the voter body of people who are
enlightened by reality and when we have
secrecy being used now to curtail
criminal trials as they are in Iran
Contra when we have a whole slide toward
kind of fascism here at the same time
that Eastern Europe is moving very
rapidly toward democracy I find it very
ironic that the winds of democracy are
sweeping across Europe but in the US the
trend seems almost to be in the opposite
direction and some of the things that I
would point to a course to illustrate
that would be the recent claims of
national security that are being used
for instance to curtail any kind of
criminal prosecution we've just had the
phenomenon of first of all plea
bargaining as people like
secord and Hakeem each accepted one plea
bargain and one guilty count and had all
the other charges dismissed special
prosecutor accepted that and did not go
forward with a trial that may have
revealed to the American public some of
the things that they need to know around
iran-contra but worse yet when it came
to Joe Fernandez the former CIA station
chief from Costa Rica he didn't have to
plead guilty to anything the defense his
lawyer insisted that he would need
certain documents in order to defend
himself documents which would show he
was basically following orders the
executive branch of course refused to
give over those documents claiming that
national security would be harmed and
that argument prevailed so the trial was
called up now even the special
prosecutor said that they were
protecting false secrets that the kinds
of things that they were protecting like
the fact that the CIA station is located
in the embassy in two or three countries
in Central America I mean everybody
knows that we had a classic example of
that during the North trial when the
national security argument was used to
prevent papers going to north which in
fact the Christic Institute had already
revealed in open court we had the rob
owen memos whole and entire and had
introduced them into open court
reporters had written about them so
there wasn't any deep dark secret that's
going to harm our national security and
yet the government was refusing to give
them to North's defense attorney on the
grounds that national security would be
harmed so I use this a simply
illustrative of a trend but i think is
very discouraging and is very ominous in
fact it means that those of us who think
we already have a democracy and don't
have to worry about it are finding that
we have less and less information upon
which to base our judgments and
therefore we really don't have democracy
we're sliding away from democracy at the
very time that Eastern Europe is pulling
down the walls of secrecy and is moving
forward toward a much more open society
so yeah but getting back to the question
of the drugs one of the people involved
in Shin for instance that Joe Fernandez
did not have to clean guilty to anything
his whole trial was dismissed on the
grounds of national security he's one of
the men who has been named by the Costa
Rican Congress as being persona non
grata in Costa Rica precisely because he
was consorting with those who were
dealing drugs in that country now the
fact that he and four other major US
figures including the former ambassador
towns from a general Richard C chord
Albert Hakim Oliver North the fact that
Oliver North and people like Joe
Fernandez and the former ambassador were
declared persona non grata in Costa Rica
because of their consorting with the
drug traffickers that got almost no
press in the United States and I think
it's outrageous it shows a real lack of
concern about one major front on the
drug issue and that is the foreign
policy connection of drugs there's been
it's not just the Christic Institute
that's saying that through its lawsuit
we said that some three and a half years
ago when we filed our lawsuit we now
have verification from sources such as
the Senate subcommittee under John Kerry
which was signed on to buy various
conservative Republicans like alfonse
d'amato from New York that subcommittee
found and documented the fact that
national security issues and State
Department priorities always took
precedent over the drug issue and that
not only did they look the other way
there was active consorting with drug
dealers
some of the funding for the Contras for
instance came directly from the cartel
other foreign policy objectives were put
ahead of stopping the drug dealers so
when we purport to have a national war
on drugs and yet we have major findings
about the foreign policy connection with
drug dealing and those connections are
not even given proper scope in the press
I think we're in big trouble I think
that that that's a that's a severe blow
to democracy and it makes me wonder if
constitutional democracy is going to
survive in this country it's comfortable
for you okay
ok well the Christic Institute filed
some three and a half years ago a civil
lawsuit in federal court in Miami on
behalf of the US journalists who were
injured by contractility a rather
massive lawsuit where we said not only
were they injured but that there is a
criminal enterprise a racketeering
enterprise that involves such things as
blowing up press conferences but it also
involves illegal arms traffic some of it
funded by illegal drug traffic some of
the profits being used to wage these
secret Wars like helping the Contras but
it doesn't it isn't limited simply to
Central America and we named the players
we named people like Secord and Hakeem
and rob owen and so on they're all
defendants of ours we named them some
seven months before iran-contra ever
broke now ironically our lawsuit has
been issued a summary judgment order
which in non legalese means the judge
substituted his judgment for the
judgment of a jury so that we couldn't
have a trial but we have his decision
upon appeal and our confident that we're
going to prevail on that the judge is
also saying that it was a frivolous
lawsuit but at contrary to what he and
others might say about it ninety percent
of what we allege three and a half years
ago is now been confirmed by totally
different sources iran-contra hearings
for instance the North trial the most
recent findings of the Senate
Subcommittee on foreign policy and drugs
the Kerry committee a number of
government agencies such as the Costa
Rican government has reopened their
investigation of the lapenna bombing so
many of the things that we allege three
and a half years ago have proven to be
true we said that there was an
enterprise Secord and others now admit
that there is we said they were dealing
arms illegally turns out they were and
even the most least likely spot of the
world
is for the romanian government we
further alleged that it had a direct
even though this was kind of off the
shelf done through the shadowy
privatized network that it had a direct
link to the White House into the US
government and we named all of the north
and his assistant rob owen it turns out
we were right the link was through the
National Security Council at least in
this most recent episode and so a number
of the things that we allege three and a
half years ago have since been proven
true now the important thing though
today is that not only does our lawsuit
first have to go forward and further
nail this stuff down in front of a jury
there are others who are corroborating
what we said even Newsweek magazine last
July in an article about the Poindexter
trial they admitted that the so-called
off-the-shelf operation that Ollie
North's spoke about remember during the
hearings during the iran-contra hearings
Ollie north said that them CIA director
Casey like to go to the off-the-shelf
operation in other words something that
was privately funded not a self-funding
self-sustaining not part of the official
government mechanism and North admitted
that he was instructed to go to Richard
C chord and people like him to get
things done in this kind of privatized
network so the Christic Institute is not
the only one saying that there is a
shadowy network generally of former
intelligence agents and other former
government people who are in effect
carrying on a privatized foreign policy
but it isn't a privatized foreign policy
because they were hand in glove with the
government it's really annex
engine of government policy so we've
we've taken that on and even Newsweek
said in july seventeenth issue of this
year that the this off the shelf
operation is probably the most sinister
aspect of iran-contra hearings and the
the assumption was made by congress that
it began with Ollie north or with casey
and then quickly died when it was
discovered but they now admit that it
was much more extensive than that and
that it hasn't died that it's still
going on and that's exactly what the
Christic institute has been trying to
get at is this what's totally the
operation of a privatized network of
people who are in effect carrying out
foreign policy for the government but
they're doing it through the private
sector so that they will have greater
deniability and that's very dangerous
because what it means in effect is that
the system of checks and balances the
fundamental democratic premises of our
country are being bypassed well two
things one is that the it seems to me
that the cover-up is to protect
government institutions so the
deniability that Schultz in the State
Department had anything to do with it
and the kind of deniability that the CIA
had anything to do that's what I think
the cover-up is they blamed it on all
these private groups and they were
willing to burn those operations what
they're protecting now are the
institutions like the State Department
and like the CIA you know there are two
different things going on here first of
all there is the existence of the
enterprise and we think it is much more
extensive than simply Central America it
did not begin with Ollie north and it
didn't end with him so that's one thing
the one house they went to talk about
that when the second thing is the
cover-up like anything historical it it
has phases to it and it comes and goes
but it began in
in the late 70s when Jimmy Carter was
elected and started emphasizing human
rights and stansfield turner came in and
cleaned out a number of covert
operatives fired over 600 people out of
the operations division of the CIA
that's when it had to go off the shelf
so to speak so it began in earnest
although it has roots back prior to that
in the late 70s and it's still going on
it has not been exposed they're
perfectly willing to cough up
individuals like Ollie north who was
working with these people or Richard C
chord pleads you know one felony count
and gets 11 dismissed doesn't even have
a trial so that the people he worked
with will not be exposed and you're
right the cover-up is trying to protect
both government individual both
government institutions and individuals
I think primarily individuals but you
will note that in Ollie North's trial
and in any of the subsequent ones the
first thing they did was cut away any
conspiracy charges they simply dropped
the conspiracy charges because that of
course will lead to the question with
whom did they conspire it's going to go
on up the on up the ladder so you're
saying the secret the shadow government
began in response to Carter's policy not
exclusively but but that was I would say
it took a quantitative week forward at
that point in the late 70s but these
guys had a history of being involved of
doing similar kinds of things while they
were officials in government how far
back the principles like theodore
shackley am Thomas Cline's and Richard C
chord habit history that goes back 20 to
30 years shaklee was part of the he was
the CIA station chief in Miami in the
60s when attempts were set up to
assassinate Castro and some about
brought in the use of private operatives
and off-the-shelf shooter team an
assassination team based
so it goes certainly back to the 60s but
shaklee himself was in government as
were these other characters until about
nineteen seventy six when when in fact
George Bush was the director of the CIA
and they felt the need at that point to
set up private corporations and to have
it become a standalone self-financed
capacity where do you think they would
find the millions of dollars to finance
something like that whether there are
two main lucrative sources one of them
is the arms traffic which of course is
needed for some of their covert war is
anyhow but arms merchants towns who not
take cut it they want cash on the
Barrelhead and where you get large
amounts of unmarked cash on the
Barrelhead there's no industry in the
world like the drug industry for
generating ready cash so there's a
symbiotic relationship between the drug
traffic and the arms traffic as a source
of funding for this enterprise and it
has not stopped with Ollie north having
his you know taking the spear in his
chest a very small sphere I might add
that he took in his gesture talk about
that connection between drugs and
iran-contra well the I think the easiest
way to nail the iran-contra drug
connection is to look at some of the
truly startling statements in the Kerry
report that the foreign policy
objectives were were given priority over
the drug connection we know for instance
that sometimes it was a matter of direct
cash being transferred Ramon million
Rodriguez the money launderer for the
cartel has testified to giving at least
10 million dollars directly to Felix
Rodriguez the man who ran the resupply
of the countries and was in constant
touch with then Vice President George
Bush's office so I think that that
connection has at least been made by
others besides the Christic Institute
is nobody is pursuing it do you know
that when the iran-contra hearings were
held remember the two protesters who
stood up in the back and unfurl the flag
that said ask about cocaine asked about
the cocaine they those two people got
more jail time than all of the
iran-contra criminals that were exposed
so you know I think it's not too strong
to say that there is an ongoing cover-up
that is still happening now other drug
connections I mean there are places like
the Bahamas for instance where George
Bush as vice president and as the drugs
are really that's what he was prior to
Bennett he had a special charge as vice
president too for a drug interdiction he
was shown the computer printouts from
the a whack airplanes that that showed
that the number of planes leaving and
landing from one small island in the
Bahamas it was obvious that something
major was going on there they spent the
the word was that the place had a record
that looked like O'Hare Airport you know
in terms of the number of flights coming
and going nothing of course was done
about that it was covered up the Bahamas
hired a PR agency which as a matter of
fact had as one of its senior partners
what's his name the name won't come to
me app the app water lee atwater was a
part of the PR firm that was hired to
cover up or handle this bohemian PR
problem they thought they had he's of
course now one of the people advising
george bush on on his drug policies so i
think that the connections between the
Contras and drugs are real and they
there's even been a Senate finding that
has backed that up the Costa Rican
government has indicted john hull one of
the key players in the whole iran-contra
connection had a key player in the
krista institute lawsuit john hall had
major land holdings in northern costa
rica a ranch where he had several
landing strip those landing strips were
being used to bring in arms for the
Contras and they were also being used as
a transit point for drugs coming up from
the cocaine from the Medina cartel from
Colombia in the United States not only
did we say that not only did the kerry
committee verify that but the Costa
Rican government has now indicted john
hall for arms trafficking and drug
trafficking as a matter of fact he's a
fugitive from justice because he fled
Costa Rica and is back in the United
States and left there illegally so you
know when you have connections like that
that are not being pursued as far as we
know by any justice department by any
grand juries by any special prosecutor
by any congressional investigation the
iran-contra studiously avoided the drug
question in the hours and hours of
hearings that they had we got quite
maybe five minutes on it on the drug
issue where Orrin Hatch could lob
softballs to somebody like Ollie north
saying now is there anything to this
drug connection I mean you'd say
absolutely not you know I know meanwhile
of course we now know that Ollie north
himself in his handwritten diary some
2,200 plus pages of handwritten diary we
know an al from the special prosecutor
543 pages have drug references in them
so Ollie north knew very well that the
people he was dealing with were at least
some of them involved in the drug
traffic and we're funding their
operations through a drug connection now
that's a that's not being pursued and be
it's not being reported there is very
little in the press about the official
connections between drug trafficker
and foreign policy it's you know it's
like it it's like it didn't happen and
the criminal prosecutions that are
coming down on Poindexter and Hakeem and
these various people are being swept
away with minor admissions yes all
ignore forgot a gratuity that he didn't
deserve he's already admitted that and
found guilty of it so when Secord pleads
guilty to lying to Congress about that
that's no big deal it's basically damage
control these folks are into damage
control admitting what the general
public already knows giving the
appearance that something is being done
about it one in fact it's not I you know
the Poindexter trial has already been
gutted the conspiracy charge dropped I
will be very surprised if there is a
point extra trial at all because he's
probably going to use the same ploy now
that Joe Fernandez did national security
documents are needed presidential papers
are needed he won't get those and so the
judge will say well he can't have a fair
trial that's the most likely scenario if
they don't come to that he will probably
plead guilty to some minor charge and
have the recipe charges dismissed so in
either case the the loser is the
American public the one who really gets
cheated in this whole process is the
public because we're being kept in
ignorance we're being told that secrecy
is more important than amok recei and I
think it's the exact opposite trend that
we see now in Eastern Europe and other
places
damn chair of it I mean aren't you
aren't you saying what you're saying is
that the whole government is corrupt I
mean what does that mean you have a
future yeah I'm saying that the
government is corrupt and and always has
been it's not a particularly Republican
phenomenon by the way it cuts through
Democratic and Republican
administrations and it bodes ill for the
future if we aren't at least battling
the real corruption and trying to turn
the tide on that I mean there will
always be corruption it's a question of
whether or not it's a wave that is
washing over us or whether or not we are
standing firm against the corruption and
not being hoodwinked not taking the head
fake that something is being done about
iran-contra when in fact it isn't
iran-contra it reminds me of like you
know a play where you have the first two
acts first we had the Congressional
hearings and while they didn't really do
anything but the final resolution is
coming later and then of course we have
the special prosecutor and he's going to
prosecute criminally and he'll get to
the bottom of it and so that the third
act is coming later we never get the
third act you know we're to the point
where we've got a two act play and there
isn't going to be any third act unless
the citizens demand that there be some
closing on this that there be some
resolution to how power was exercised in
our name and unless we demand that it's
not going to happen and if it doesn't
happen then it doesn't bode well for the
future the future is very grim in terms
of any kind of constitutional democracy
because I would maintain that democracy
functions primarily on an open flow of
information where governments are able
to rewrite history and able to curtail
the flow of information you have a move
toward dictatorship that's the that's
the modus operandi of dictators ships
and and that's what I see us gradually
sliding toward some would say not so
gradual that
it's a veritable rush toward it
ironically at the same time that that
other governments are are resigning and
Communist Party domination is being
undone and we're getting a look behind
the scenes I'll corrupt some of them
work unless we are willing to look into
our own corruption and not take the
national security head fake then I think
that word big trouble here behind me is
father Bill teske who's an Episcopal
priest and has joined us recently to be
a primary liaison with the religious
community we one of the things that we
do at the Institute is that we we try to
not just have hard-hitting legal actions
in the court and we have a kind of a
winning track record there we try very
seriously to get the message out through
civic organizations through synagogues
through churches we feel that the
religious community is one of our
primary constituencies many of us are
people who have dedicated our lives to
this kind of work because of our
religious commitment so it's very
important to us and we we not only take
the connection between the struggle for
justice and spirituality seriously we
try to lead others to do that so we're
we're delighted that bill and others of
course are pushing for closer liaison
with the Germans but would you like to
go on a general tour of the place of
course go ahead let's move on into the
next ah question where some of the
computers and all you see around you are
part of the apparatus that we use
for public education we have a mailing
list of approximately 80,000 people and
we try to target specific audiences with
the kind of information that they're
able to manage and yoga now I'll shut it
off because the other people in this
office on this war or not here right now
as you come around the corner you will
have a good look here at other bill
tesco who is our liaison with the
religious community both Catholic
Protestant Jewish and part-time mail
clerk and it has a little bit of
everything like most people in this
institution do it's almost ironic so
next we get hotshot lawyers wanting to
volunteer to work for us and we look at
them and say but can you type because
people here have to be very flexible and
do a lot of different jobs let's go on
upstairs take a look at that public
education thanks I've real sorry we're
in an old two-story building that what
at one point was a snake what kind of
shop with a shoemakers shop prepare to
get the family living quarters up there
and we
general seek or literature these offices
have been referred to as Washington
townhouses well I don't think many
people who look at this very tough part
of Washington we would consider these
townhouses in a highly desirable
neighborhood we're in one of the
toughest poorest parts of the city but
this is the antechamber to Sarah
Nelson's office and turn off for second
the fourth round okay so it's a double
double their own moral okay good so as
we move yeah as we move on into Sarah
Nelson's office this is moral the
foreground who's an assistant to sarah
nelson our executive director that's
another thing we try to be very
non-sexist of course in our approach our
chief executive officer is a woman Sarah
Nelson who really was very instrumental
in getting the karen silkwood case
started and therefore along with it
Christy constitute Sarah isn't in today
but this is her office and all of these
offices were put together by our own
people and
we did all the rehab work ourselves most
of the time with donated materials and
the place has been gradually built from
terrible slum to only a moderate smooth
okay well people are out at lunch right
now but you know all this all this
paneling was donated by the way and then
we put it in ourselves or with volunteer
labor so whose office is this is who's
in this one now Cynthia doing public
education yeah the public education
director is is using this office I'll
now take you into the closet and through
all that didn't exist before but we
basically punched a hole in the wall
here to enter into the other building
we're now in a second building that that
constitutes a lot of our administrative
and press office Rob Ritchie is one of
our press people here who've been busily
keeping track of all the different
articles that come out and does a lot of
contact with radio stations for us and
the servicing of different reporters
that come up wedding after it's a
suppressor is that we send out about a
month ago
them right now we're in the process of
reorganizations may be clear great all
right part of our development office is
this former bedroom with Steve dle
director of the office is busily working
away in there this is where a lot of the
direct mail is generated and various
donors services are provided people who
write in recreation looks like you're
doing a big mailing it yep that's right
free Christmas meal thank you but you've
been involved in that's how you support
this whole operation just under now
mainland um not entirely but
predominantly from individual
contributors what percentage refuse you
for say two thirds two thirds one who
says our new client things about the CSV
nickels and dimes all downtown yeah it's
a very broadly based grassroots network
I mean that's one of the gratifying
things about the Christian we have
literally hundreds and thousands of
small donors who really believe in what
we're doing
and want to be a part of it there's a
couple of other small office right back
there canal into what you should be
kitchen and in fact school is kitchen
copier Cynthia's office um earlier is
here as as well as a couple of you can
see we use this basically as a
conference room but also egg for general
admission rip Emmerich is the director
of the press office that you were just a
few moments ago showing many articles
lately normally do in the car samples
well our overall purpose is to is to
maintain liaison with with the media the
news recently we've not had as many
articles directly on our suit as we have
in the past because of the status but we
have kept up with some articles
peripheral to what we're doing in
we've continued to provide information
to different media sources on issues
that were involvement no I mean in some
ways it must be sort of discouraging in
that you are you've gotten stuff out I
mean things have happened and yet things
have it things are like still there that
the shadow government is still there the
case is kind of in the suspended
animation nikhil how do you keep your
spirits I mean all of you and the
mainstream krause is very hard to break
into because basically they don't want
to cover these issues that's one of the
questions that I get asked every place
that I speak why is this in the crust
when after going to of course who owns
the press who advertises in the press
what are their what are considered their
safe sources that won't get into any
trouble etc etc so it's a complex
question and yes it's depressing at
times but people like Rick you plugging
away we get a lot of things into the
alternative media we make sure that what
press does come out then gets to the
right people and the kind of edify
avoiding the side of it is the large
large number of people in this country
we know that can't depend upon the
mainstream press and who want to hear
about this stuff and who do believe it
when they hear about it and who do want
to do something about it once you have
one campaign that we're really working
on right now is we call it Media Watch
it's a campaign to encourage people
around the country to write letters to
the editor to do op-ed pieces really to
talk back to the news media to say why
are you covering these things we've
encouraged them to to write on on issues
surrounding our case the Oliver North
trial the upcoming Poindexter child
this trial which was dismissed and and
we felt a a really good response to that
it's been it's been very impressive
there are some empirical signs of you
know as I say the large number of people
who are who really do want to learn
about this stuff I think ultimately
though your question as to what what
makes you confident that something will
be done you've asked a very profoundly
philosophic question and for me
personally it comes back to whether or
not one believes that the truth has some
kind of power and that we who have very
few resources and very few people can
hook into that power it's a power that
that the normal institutions and power
spectral don't appreciate or don't
understand or don't know how to deal
with and so I think I think part of the
answer to your question is how one views
the power of truthfulness and the power
of sisterhood rather good and that
people here are outrageously optimistic
about that these small cubicles so that
people could have some kind of private
officers let me show you upstairs for
instance the ceiling appears rather low
but it's one way of maximizing the space
and Sheila wolf is our main bookkeeper
administrator and general what factotum
of all the buildings and everything else
all the material parts of it so you must
have one of the hottest jobs here um not
really I'm the director of
administration and
cludes the reception area the mailroom
and accounting and everybody here works
generally far more than the 40-hour week
and it's paid a lot less than a normal
salary I sometimes tell people our wages
are lousy but the retirement benefits
are out of this world anyhow Sheila's
one who has to come up with the payroll
every half a month and it's not easy
it's been a real tough struggle in the
finances well that's when I met with
that job of yours it's yeah we've had
some it's been tight for the past couple
of months
yeah you can welcome to my wing
maximizing the space and the unusually
large room that we had downstairs oh yes
your hair oh these these rooms are made
for normal people are not made for you
Giants one fella came in and almost and
cracked his head and almost knocked
himself out oh yeah well yeah that look
yeah yeah you don't have had it yeah
that wouldn't be valid how did shows
that's where you have this is this is
equivalent to one this is like solitary
any how long are you hiding in there
Murray
priority looks like you're recycling
letters we get to change submit the
changes send out of information how long
will it take to get our mail um an
in-house fan we've been doing them
in-house lately and they take they tend
to take a little longer than the veil
house kisses your hands but i'd say
probably a week to a few days to
actually get it out but they work on him
all the time they're always putting
together pieces of writing articles
Diane Miller who's working on this now
duralee does servicing of benefactors
people who have questions that they need
to get answered for some name she
substitutes as the person of the front
desk answering the telephone usually
people filled two or three different
roles around here
some of the posters one of the ones you
might find interesting is a very poster
on the very front wall karen silkwood
poster that was really the case that got
us our start we we filed the karen
silkwood lawsuit in 1976 when we weren't
even incorporated yet but it was the
team of people who gathered to
investigate to prosecute to fund and new
public education around the current so
quick case who then came back to
Washington in 1980 and we got our
incorporation and our former beginning
was in nineteen eighty but the team of
people who gathered to put the Silkwood
case together we're really the the
people who found with the Christie
Constitution yeah talk about the pounder
well there were there were approximately
six of us who are still here now who
were in a sense co-founders I suppose
the main ones would be Danny Sheehan who
is was the chief counsel on the karen
silkwood case and is still the head of
our litigation department his wife sarah
nelson who is our executive director
Sarah does all kinds of things she has
always helped with funding she's always
been very closely involved with public
education efforts and with getting the
word out through print and through film
and she was very instrumental in helping
to get the Silkwood movie started so
that a movie that was seen by millions
of people got the message out that we
wanted to at least part of the message
that we wanted to get across we always
used to joke that you know they might
have been able to kill Karen Silkwood
but they can't kill Meryl Streep and so
Meryl Streep was able to get into a lot
of hearts and minds that Karen Silkwood
message didn't reach while she was alive
but that's what we do is try to parley
the information that we have the
lawsuits that we do in to substantive
social change
by doing grassroots organizing and
public education around around the
issues that we deal with so the the we
rely a lot on the press and as you can
see there there's always a number of
issues that we keep posted and that we
clip from other papers and try to get
out to appropriate people particularly
the drug issues that are going on now
there are a number of things happening
around that it's a hot issue at the
general public and it's intimately tied
in to the lawsuit that we're currently
doing so we feel that it's it may be an
opening of a new door a lot of people
who are perfectly willing to have the
wool pulled over their eyes with regard
to foreign policy and with regard to the
policy toward Nicaragua many of them
know that drugs are wrong and they're
not about to have that concern be
shuttled aside so hi Sarah sir the drug
issue tough as it is is it was a new
opportunity I think for people who take
a look at how power is being exercised
and what's really going on in our
country he's like these what are the
mechanisms whereby the public is still
kept in the dark we can walk out this
door and within half a block sometimes
his life has been severely impacted by
job where does that make you feel we've
had murders right here on our front
steps literally your drug drug killings
have taken place right out here on the
sidewalk doesn't it right outside of our
door it makes me feel that there is an
urgency to this it makes me feel that
it's outrageous that this present
government claims to have a war on drugs
when
it doesn't it's a PR campaign it's an
attempt to make the public think
something's being done about drugs
arresting street-level vendors the only
thing that does is provide new slots for
new vendors they're not going after the
real drug lords they're not going after
the people who have gotten their ticket
punched to continue their drug
trafficking because they either helped
with intelligence information they've
helped the State Department objectives
they've helped the Contras etc Greg
Noriega is kind of a classic example but
there are many many examples like him of
people who are known drug traffickers
and a whole variety of government
agencies and government individuals have
looked the other way because of foreign
policy objectives or other funding of
the Contras other objectives in between
so what it makes me feel is that we've
got a lot of work cut out for us and
that getting the truth of this matter
out is not going to be easy it's going
to be a long struggle but it's obviously
a very urgent struggle you know when
when people are literally dying on your
front doorstep and when one witnesses as
some of us have the detoxification of
crack babies and so on and realizing the
incredible costs to society that are not
being dealt with by the president
so-called war on drugs them we know that
there's a that there's a real urgency
we've got to we've got to do everything
that we possibly can to get on top of
this situation because ultimately
ultimately it's not just drugs or it's
not just a particular lawsuit that's at
stake what's at stake here I think is
the survival of democracy as we know it
and that is there's a Thursday it's not
just for instance Central Americans who
are being harmed by our present
government policies I think ultimately
it's our lives that are in the balance
it's the people of the UL you are
perhaps losing some of their most
fundamental rights and their
most cherished institutions tell me
about this poster this poster is an
interesting example of how a lot of
things happen young woman approached us
who said she didn't have any money but
she believed in what we were doing and
she really wanted to help us her name is
Ellie Simons and we said well what do
you do who are you and she said well I'm
an artist so we said wonderful drama
upholstery you know make a poster for us
so she made this poster which has to do
a course with unmasking the shadow
government day on the rather artistic
max mouse when she drew with the
Washington power syndrome in the
background in the military has been
quite a quite a success and quite a
winner as you can see we've gone from
that poster over to t-shirt now which
has the same mask on it and that that's
being marketed so the point is that
people like artists musicians poets
writers accountants a whole variety of
people i think are willing to help with
this effort and need to use their own
skills need to be who they are and not
not try to do everything themselves we
have some lawyers we have some very
dedicated and talented lawyers we can
bring lawsuits but we need all kinds of
help from other people who can
contribute other elements to a general
enlightening Republic so we you know I'm
very glad that you asked about that
filter because I think it's a striking
example of
people of different talents can make a
political contribution
can we get a shot them to see outside
that's sure sure
and
this is known as the shot history get
weren't such a cold day you would find
dozens of people usually just hanging
out here winos different kinds of people
but the Christie Institute simply took
over what was originally a shoemaker
shot with the bay window in the front we
haven't been able to we have them count
afford to replace the bay window so we
simply have a plywood board boarding it
up but this building and the one next to
it and we now have two others down the
street constitute the Christie Institute
and it's been called a Washington
townhouse that C cords lawyer said that
they wanted to shut us down they wanted
to seize our Washington townhouse
offices and so us have to smile about
because it's it's hardly what one would
consider a townhouse this has been one
of the major drug trafficking areas in
the city the small street down here at
the corner
pick up the point for cocaine
for years it's not as though officials
don't know who these people are or where
they're coming from we see it going on
almost on a daily basis around here
this small street called Hanover place
and as you can see it's only about two
blocks long but it is like a supermarket
for drug traffic and probably done of
abandoned building and probably the
people who just disappeared around the
corner when we first came out here were
a part of that there's a whole kind of
much of a one-way streets and
alleys back in behind here that people
go into but yes a lot of abandoned
buildings this building right next to us
for instance is has been this way for at
least 10 years I don't know how long
before that so and we're within
literally within sight of the nation's
capital the right here
Capitol Street
this isn't a terribly poor day but you
know there's there's the nation's
capital
carpi more than stone's throw away from
this incredible slum where our offices
are
manger drug craft goes on daily
so we have some problems that we haven't
gotten totally on top of yet but we're
working on it we're working on it little
by little it's we're going to we're
going to get on top of it we're the kind
of people who still believe in
this country was founded on and we still
believe in
all of those things that we were taught
as children about personal rights and
democracy and government of the people
you know we're kind of
that's our area that's our offer
he's uh it's we're just shooting for a
little dull with this guy's make the web
part of the Aristocats to hear you're
wandering around
white dived I've seen on the block I
mean I know you're one of the regulars I
don't don't know your name but I knew
you were around just gonna be on TV
channels well might be you never tell
with 13 one part yeah well cutting room
floor usually gets most of its base yeah
what do you think of this neighborhood
what else think of it yeah it's a
hardenable way to survive it is not
because of drugs and all because of
unemployment housing conditions
hunger you know all these things
compressed together can really put a man
into a ver very hostile mental state of
mind you know the man and it's not
everybody looking at number
okay don't get me wrong drugs play
across but those other things hunger no
place to stay you know no job you know
concentrate trying to learn about the
drug situation by turns buried on drugs
is like trying to learn about fox
hunting by just watching the Fox yeah
whole lot more a lot more to that that's
right behind the drug had to get into
the country and and distributed amongst
the poor population I can't say I would
say one thing as government has power to
to transport I mean that they're giving
these ships big giving all these aids to
these countries shipping rifles are food
or whatever over to all these countries
and these countries are returned
supposed to be shipping their trade back
here but amongst their trade drugs are
smuggled into you know going in the
pockets of the fish
big officials you know they I tell you
what I've been in this neighborhood for
10 years and I've been investigating the
drug situation you know in terms of the
government and all that a nobody from
this neighborhood flying the drugs in
Central America they're being brought by
cleans that are helping the Contras and
people like that you know and then we
feel the effects of you guys feel the
effects of nice but recognize drug
sentences believe it a nut okay my
brother he still there he'd been that 27
years in there yeah ice break in the end
the end the Republican crook room okay
and I I know a friend of mine to Mandela
congressman brought him some up a
briefcase of heroin and as you know did
he want to distribute it yeah and he
said no how it happens your house right
yeah that's right and they try to blame
it on the poor people who are the victim
for the day hey try to put it over
congressman with that I don't know his
name I don't know his name you know I
didn't get his name thanks very much
yeah what do you need my name my name is
Alan yeah
leola meet your neighbors good good to
see you guys all right y'all take care
reach
there we go you have now don't know who
you think is reading the drug to me well
you know they come in with all the
government people seem anova must be
government people are free I loved it
well they're not only friendly but I
think there's a lot of wisdom in this
neighborhood you know they're one of the
main points was looking it's not just a
drug problem it's mainly a piratey pro
you know people not have work you know
economic anything else to turn to so
it's that whole contact people who have
very few choices in their lives are
being told to just say no as though I'm
living it no it you know it's easy for
us to sit and diagnose it I never talked
to this guy before in my life yet he
came out basically all right in a book
or it took me about five years and it
had to do with the US government work